Okay, functions and Lambdas.
So a function it's similar
as the functions that you're
used to with a little,
some tweaks on the syntax.
For example, instead of using the function
keyword, it's the fun keyword.
Some people say fun, it's up to you, but
let's say fun, fun is funnier, I guess.
So fun, the name of the function and
parentheses as you're used to, Aniko look.
If the function returns a value,
we must say so
by using column and
the datatype that we are returning, okay?
By default, we're not returning.
So if you either return is not gonna work,
it's not gonna compile because
the signature of the function doesn't
say that is returning something, okay?
So we must add column sometimes
you add a space here.
In that case you can
pick the one you prefer.
Something interesting that we
have is that if the function
has only one line,
I can get rid of the return first, okay?
But also I can get rid of the code block.
And instead of a code block,
I can use equals.
So in that case,
it's a one-line function declaration.
And there is an implicit return, the
equals it's kind of an implicit return.
So calling a function returning
to is equals to that string,
that's the idea, okay?
It's not mandatory,
is something that you can picture use.
Arguments, arguments are actually
pretty straightforward with
the differences in syntax
that we have in Kotlin.
So we use the name of the argument
colon and the type coma.
The name of the argument colon and
the type.
We can have default values if you want to,
okay?
So that's fine.
Even if you have a default value,
you must declare the type, okay?
So you cannot use implicit type here.
We must declare the type in this case.
So in this case, actually pretty simple.
How do you call some, as you're used to.
Like so, but
look at what happens here because the
first time you see that it's confusing.
So there isn't a colon,
like that, and a b colon, okay?
But I didn't type those.
Actually, those are not
characters in the file.
Be careful with this, okay?
So be careful, mostly when you are looking
at my code, when you're typing,
you don't need to type a colon and
b colon because they're not there, okay?
It's just a hint from the IDE, okay?
So, you can disable that if you don't
want, but also this is interesting.
You can also call the same
function naming the arguments, but
instead of column width equals.
You decide when you call the function,
if you wanna call the function
in the classic way,
like with values comma separator, or
by naming its arguments with
the name equal and the value.
It's doing exactly the same.
Is that your question or not?
>> Yeah,
does that mean you could switch them?
>> Good question.
That means that if you're
using the second version,
you can actually change
the order of the operators.
So the order doesn't matter
when you're naming them.
To make things even weirder,
when you have another one,
let me clone this one
with a third argument.
Like so.
When you're calling let's say some three.
When you're calling that one, I can say
I want a and then, so that doesn't have
a name a, even if you see a colon that's
not a name, I'm not naming the argument.
And then the other two,
you can change the order.
So the first one is not using the name and
the other two is using the names.
And by the way that feels weird, but
then we are going to use this
a lot in jetpack compose.
A lot more than you want
[LAUGH] some points.
Okay, this idea of naming the argument,
or sometimes we name the argument,
sometimes we don't name the argument.
>> Is that a colon?
Is that a IDE hint or-
>> Yeah it's an IDE hint,
so a colon is actually not there.
In fact,
if I'm moving this you can see the cursor.
I mean, I cannot delete that.
If I try to select a,
I cannot do that because it's not there.
If you open that file from VS code,
you're not going to see a colon.
So again, have in mind that a equals
is something that I wrote and
a colon is something that I'm not writing
and it's not there in the text file.
You can disable that hint
if you don't like it, okay?
There are many hints like that like
those in Android Studio, okay?
Well, that's simple to get, I guess.
Then we have extension functions,
that is actually pretty cool.
Not every language is letting you do this.
An extension function is a way that we
have to inject to have new functions to
any object or any time,
even if you don't own the type.
So in this case,
I'm adding an even method to integers.
So now you will see that I can 2 is
even to 4, because it's an integer.
That's something I have just created.
The only difference is the function
that you write anywhere,
but you have a prefix with a type dot.
This is heavily used in Kotlin.
Heavily used in Kotlin.
So, sometimes you will be using functions
that you don't know where the function is
coming from because when you get into the
type, the function is not there, and say,
what's going on?
Well, the function is
coming from an extension.
And I am saying careful OOP extremist
because think about it from an OOP
perspective, from
an object-oriented perspective.
This is a thin, actually, right?
Because you're messing with other types
that you don't have permission, right?
>> It's like a global object.
>> It's like a global object but receiving
the integer as an argument, but instead of
doing it like so, we're doing this other
method that has its own unique advantages.
Okay, so we're going to see this a lot
during the rest of the training, and
finally we have lambda functions.
That's the name that we use here for
literal functions or
anonymous functions,
closures in other languages.
Here it's called a Lambda function.
So a Lambda function it's a variable.
It's a data type.
The data type is actually
when you create a lambda,
the data type is parenthesis,
thin arrow and then the return type.
Now for example, if I have receive
two integers and return an integer,
that's how you express that, okay?
This's actually pretty
similar to swift and
maybe swift is the only one that looks
exactly the same like this, the data type.
What happens if you don't
wanna return anything, weird.
There is a void, but
we don't use that in Android.
Here we have one difference between
compiling for Android and compiling for
other platforms in Kotlin.
It's called unit, and please don't
ask me why it's called a unit.
It's a weird name.
But unit means that we are not going
to return a value in that function.
Okay, for Android SDK.
And how do you assign a value?
Code block.
So you open curly braces,
and you put the code inside.
How do you curl the function?
Like any other function.
You just curl it.
Okay, something interesting
about arguments.
Let me put this here, if I have in this
function I receive an integer, okay?
If you see here I have a new hint.
That says it int.
If you have only one argument one and
only one argument,
that argument has an implicit name of it,
so you can print it.
So the idea is that it is
the option that we are receiving,
the only option that we are receiving,
okay?
So you can print it, you can save it,
you can, wherever the with it.
If you don't like it, okay?
You can rename that implicit int.
But the idea is that this will improve or
it will improve the speed of your
coding having that int there, okay?
So instead of doing that I can
actually put a name on it.
And it's an integer,
so I will call it int.
And we use the arrow,
the thin arrow as a way to separate
the name of your argument or
arguments and the code, and
that goes within the code block.
So within the code block,
not outside of the code block, okay?
So if I have two arguments,
an integer and a Boolean, well,
I can just name the Boolean,
like is radio wherever.
So now I don't have int,
I have is already an int,
my two arguments, okay?
So I think here I have an example
like that, but it takes some time to
get used to this syntax because I
know the first time you see at this,
it's like,
it takes some time to read this, okay?
But actually it's a variable with
a name myCalc that I know it's
a lambda expression because
this is the whole type.
So that's the type,
the type is a lambda expression.
I know that because there is an arrow, the
lambda expression receives two arguments,
two integers and returns an integer.
And then we have an equals, an assignment.
So we have actually the current value of
that variable that is actually this code.
And that code can be like this, but
because there is only one line,
I don't need the curly braces,
like we saw before.
So I'm saying that I'm receiving
two arguments a and b, and
I'm returning a plus b.
So as a lambda expression that you can
quickly write a lambda expression for
functional programming, okay?
Any question?
>> So as soon as you have more
than one parameter or variable,
it is-
>> No, you're forced to name them.
So if you have more than one argument
you're forced to name the arguments.
It works only with one argument.
>> Is that kind of like this?
>> No, because you still have this.
>> You still have this?
>> Yeah, when you have a context for
this, like a class or an object,
you still have this, so.
>> But it's functional we don't have this?
>> Well, let me change your question.
So is this functional programming or
is Kotlin functional programming?
You can kind of use some of
the functional programming ideas,
but when we are compiling for
Android, we are compiling for
a Java VM or for
a BM compatible with Java, let's say.
And on Java, everything is a class.
So actually,
if you wanna execute this code like so
without the class, in Android,
it's not gonna work.
In android,
you cannot create global variables.
Everything must be within
some sort of class or
structure because of
the restriction of the Android BN.
But if you're writing Kotlin,
for console or for native,
you can actually do whatever you want.
But just remember that Kotlin for
Android is working within the restrictions
of the Android runtime that
is compatible with a Java VM,
at least in terms of the architecture.